SOUTH OF THE SUN

a role-playing game about a dragon team
discovering the world before the world. 

Based on Apocalypse World.



The world of South of the Sun is an enormous (really,
mind-bogglingly huge) disc surrounding a sun. Humans inhabit
a tiny part of the section where the temperature, air
pressure, and natural resources allow them to survive. Since
the world does not rotate in the sense that a planet does,
everything is cast in perpetual twilight from a single,
unchanging direction, and there is no
natural day or night, usually. Sometimes it happens, with
catastrophic results. 

The known civilised lands are divided into cities that
control the lands shadowside or 'south' of them (away from
the sun). Cities further north (sunside) almost always have
martial and strategic advantage over more southern cities
due to having the sun at their backs during combat, and
being able to shade their enemies, starving them of
resources. However, going north results in hotter and hotter
climates. As a result, most cities are built as far north as
their cooling technologies allow, and sometimes send
exploratory parties to the north.  

This game focuses on the player character's explorations,
missions and exploits as they uncover the underlying truth
behind the world. Who built it? Why is it here? What
histories have been lost? How did humans come to be here? 
What secrets lie to the wild and uncharted east and
west, in the shadowy south and the burning bright north,
under the ground and above the clouds? And what connections
do the majestic, powerful and alien dragons have to this
strange world? 


-- CHARACTERS --

	THE DRAGON
	- a majestic, sentient flying creature that breathes fire and
	  is deeply connected to their rider. 
	- the player names all dragons encountered by the party
	- somehow connected to the history of the world in a
	  fundamental way. 
	- the Dragon names history, past events, their impact on the
	  present, myths and stories. 

	THE RIDER
	- a noble warrior or ambassador. cares for the dragon and
	  carries the weight of their society's expectations. 
	- the rider names social conventions, cultural practices, 
	and martial strategies. 

	THE WIZARD
	- a canny mechanic. sees the strangeness and wonder of
	  technology, and alone understands it. 
	- the wizard names technology as it is used in the world,
	  how well it is understood (if at all), how it is used and
	how it shapes societies. 

	THE HUNTER
	- a woodsperson, survivalist, and logistician. ensures the
	  team's food and shelter. 
	- the hunter names creatures, wildlife, and the web of
	  ecosystems that make up the environment. 

	THE PHILOSOPHER
	- a scientist, experimentalist and natural theorist. 
	- the philosopher names the physical realities of the world -
	  geology, meteorology and climate, and the implications of
	the strange physics of the disc world. 

RULES

	MAKING A MOVE
		2d6 + stat to resolve.
		1-6 - Failure.
		7-9 - Partial Success. You get what you want, but
		      there are complications. See the move description for details. 
		10-12 - Full Success. 

STATS (-2 to +2) 

	MOTIVE  Your ability to take strenuous
		action. A measure of strength and willpower.

	FLUIDITY
		A measure of quickness, grace and smoothness.

	HISTORY 
		A measure of your connection to the world and its
		mysteries.

	HEART
		A measure of connectedness to other beings - your
		ability to befriend, charm, seduce, or inspire. 

	GUILE
		A measure of your craftiness and ability to
		repurpose the world's resources for your own
		benefit.


GENERAL MOVES
	
	FORCE
		You apply judicious force to change something.
		Partial success: You succeed. Describe what breaks. 

	ENDURE
		You keep going where others might lose their resolve. 
		Partial success: You succeed. Describe how you are weakened. 

	AVOID
		You avoid danger by getting quickly out the way, or moving gracefully into it. 
		Partial success: You succeed. Describe how the thing you are avoiding strikes someone or something important.

	DIVINE
		You are connected to the history of the World. Some facet of its unknown past has impressed itself on you.  
		Partial success: You succeed. Describe what you now know. You are wrong about part of it.  

	PARLAY
		You get someone to see your point of view, with reason or charm or guile. 
		When you roll parlay, say one thing you know that your opponent 
		(or anyone else, if no obvious opponent is present) does not.  
		Partial success: You succeed. Describe one thing your opponent gets you to believe. 

	MANIPULATE
		You operate a device or tool that requires finesse.
		Partial success: You succeed. Describe how the object is permanently different.

	SABOTAGE

	BODGE

	FORGE INSIGHT
